
# Analysing Software Architectures

  

- Grading a finished architecture.

- Testing if it satisfies all requirements.

- **ATAM and CBAM**

  

## Architecture Tradeoff Analysis Method (ATAM)

- where can we make compromises in order to satisfy our requirements.

- the result is a final grade given by **experts** that tells us how good is the architecture.

  

### ATAM members

- grading team = experts that haven't worked on the project and are there to grade it.

- managment team = manager of project and the architect

- other stakeholders = people that are in the project (ex. developers,testers)

- ATAM is most beneficial when done early in the software development life-cycle, when the cost of changing architectures is minimal.

  

### The four steps in ATAMA

-  *Preparement* = how to set up the meeting

-  *Grading* = grading team + managment team

-  *Grading II* = grading team + managment team + other stakeholders

-  *Key notes* = grading team + client

  

### Step in ATAMA

  

#### Grading I

-  *Step 1* = Selecting and sorting the scenarios

-  *Step 2* = Showcasing the system / showing its appliability and functionality

-  *Step 3* = Formal presentation and defending your stance of the system via PowerPoint and presenting the basic requirements

-  *Step 4* = Presenting which tactics were used and why were they used

-  *Step 5* = Creating quality scenarios

-  *Step 6* = Discussion, representing the risks that are generated by the architecture

#### Grading II ( + other stakeholders)

-  *Step 7* = Voting on which scenarios are the most important, and after the vote the scenarios that have the most votes are prioritized. The prioritized scenarios have to match the scenarios that were initially brought upon by the Architect.    

-  *Step 8* = Same as Step 6

-  *Step 9* = Recaping everything that was learned about the system until now. 


## Cost benefitial analysis method (CBAM)

- **$** analysis
- Goes in combination with ATAM, that is it gives a price of all the architectural tactics that are used in the architecture.
- ROI (Return Investment)
- Utility grade is created = *How is the system useful from the quality requirements point of view ?*
- Every driver(quality requirements) is prioritized by giving a grade from 1-10, 1 being the most prioritized requirement.

### Steps in CBAM

- *Step 1* = Sorting the scenarios / Every scenario from ATAM is prioritized based on how they will help fullfil the bussiness goals. In this step stakeholders can add more scenarios into the mix. 
- *Step 2* = Main foucs is the scenarios. Scenarios are refined and sorted from best to worst based on the desired result.
- *Step 3* = Prioritizing sceanarios. Every stakehodler votes on what scenarios they consider a priority. The most scenario with the most votes is considered the most prioritized scenario (Value of 1).
- *Step 4* = Every remaining scenario is given a utility grade ( poleznost ). Opishue se svako scenario kolko bi bilo polezno(korisno ) da se koristi.
- *Step 5* = Architecture Strategy is designed for every scenario, and in this step every scenario is anylized on how it will affect other scenarios.
- *Step 6* = Grading the utility (poleznost) on every expected result from the scenarios.
- *Step 7* = The entire grade of utility for the scenario is formed.
- *Step 8* = ROI is calculated for every strategy and based on that the ones that fit in the budged are used.
- *Step 9* = Checking if the selected strategies fit in line with our bussiness goals. 
